# PROJECT_ON_CONGRESSIONAL_REDISTRICTING_PROBLEM-GERRYMANDERING
This project is addressing unethical redistricting plans. This may dilute certain demographic group’s voting power, which is an important problem as it infringes upon the Voting Rights Act of 1965 which protects minority group’s votes. Also, the bias involved in the redistricting plan is an unfair use of power to weaken the individual's vote; which is highly unethical and borderline predatory. Working on this problem will provide us with the opportunity to create a more neutral districting plan through deep reinforcement learning algorithms since it is not being swayed by human biases. Gerrymandering is one of the most significant issues in US politics, and it’s a substantial problem for civic interests. The district maps can be drawn in a partisan manner that may violate the constitutional rights by shifting the borders to maximize the chances of success for their desired representatives. This is a form of voter suppression that needs to be removed and our reinforcement learning model can be an effective tool that can reduce the chances of Gerrymandering and draws a fairer district map. Since the model learns by itself, it can reduce biases and may not favor any political party. We are using Iowa state as the main focus throughout this project. We will use our fairness metrics to figure out how fair the current map of Iowa is. Then, we will build a Deep Q-Network that will give us a fairer redistricting plan that will reduce any kind of Gerrymandering.
